# Seattle Crime Analysis

### Abstract
This project aims to visualize temporal and spatial trends of criminal activity in Seattle via datacollection and cleaning. Additionally, the project includes a real-life application of statistical hypothesistesting based on true crime incidence. The process of analyzing two-sample proportions will be introducedin order to draw meaningful conclusions from data. Results will be used to evaluate the reliability ofinformation found on an online source.

### About the Data
The  crime  dataset  is  from  the  City  of  Seattle  Open  Data  portal  spanning  from  2015  to  2020.   The dataset consists of basic identifying information about the crime incident, such as date/time when the crime happened, block where the crime occurred, crime category, location description, and location coordinates.According to the data.seattle.gov, the dataset is provided by Seattle Police Department (SPD). To pre-serve data quality, SPD relied on the National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS). Data is updatedonce every twenty-four hours; thus, the quality of the SPD can be assumed to be reasonably high. SPD have also provided a detailed description of the sources of the data and how they were processed. The encloseddata dictionary contains descriptions of all variables in the dataset. In addition, the data were assembled manually, so there is always the possibility for human error. Given the public nature of the data, we wouldbe able to consult the original data sources to check the quality of the data if we had any questions. 
